README.md, before:

# Into the Woods -- BSP Frustum-Culling Demo


**CS174A Fall 2021 Project, UCLA**

*Team members:*

- Nurrachman Liu (rachliu@cs.ucla.edu)
- Adrian Hung
- Nicholas Browning

This is a demo for BSP-based frustum-culling. It contains a user-interactable BSP-tree; on each split (key press `n`), the tree divides the objects it contains into half spaces using a hyperplane. Each successive split recursively divides all leaves into 2 more cells. Turn on BSP-culling (key press `b`) to see the difference, from the exact player's POV! The player's exact POV is drawn globally as well, viewable from the global camera. (Cycle cameras using `t`).

![main](./docs/main.png)

To observe the difference between frustum-culling vs no-culling (regular), culling can be turned on/off (key press `b`).

The interactive player can be moved around (`IJKL` for translation, `QE` for left/right rotation, and `YH` for up/down tilt), independently of the default ('global') camera (`WASD`).

In BSP mode, BSP cells' centers are drawn in spheres colored by cell. To color objects by their BSP cell's color instead, hit `g`.

To cycle BSP-cull level, hit `c`. Default level (0) does not cull using any distance checks, while level (1) also does distance checks. Level 1 is better at very little expense (computations of distances to only log(n) objects), because it can additionally filter possibly many objects in leaves within the current FOV but that are too far away to be of any use.

To turn down LOD (level of detail), hit `u`.


**Example:**
1. Split the scene several times (press `n` several times)
2. Turn on culling (`b`)
3. Rotate the player (`q`,`e`) to see the trees being culled based on what the player is seeing.
4. Cycle to player 1st-person perspective (`t`) to see exactly the FOV the player camera sees, and the trees.
5. Turn off culling (`b`) to see all trees rendered in player perspective.

- The overhead map (bottom left) shows the full map, the player FOV, and the culled objects.
- The off-camera viewport (bottom, right) shows the off-main camera's perspective.

![demo](./docs/demo.gif)


**All Keys:**

*BSP-control:*
- `b`:  Toggle BSP culling on/off.
- `n`:  Split the BSP by 1 level.
- `c`:  Cycle BSP cull-level. (0: fov withut max-distance check; 1: fov with max-distance check).
- `g`:  Color objects by the color of their BSP nodes.

*Misc. Settings:*
- `u`:  Toggle LOD.

*Camera-controls:*
- `t`:  Cycle between player vs global camera.

*Player-controls:*
- `i`: Move forward (w)
- `k`: Move backward (s)
- `j`: Move left (a)
- `l`: Move right (d)
- `q`: Rotate left
- `e`: Rotate right
- `y`: Tilt head up
- `h`: Tilt head down


### Code Location

All of the project code is located in `./project/`. The main graphics code is in `./project/bsp-demo.js`. The backend BSP data structure code is in `./project/bsp.js`.

The back-end `./project/bsp.js` can be run in node-js locally by typing `node bsp.js`.

The application is run by lauching the local python web server `./host` or `./host.command` and then going to localhost:8000 in your browser.


### References

https://github.com/Robert-Lu/tiny-graphics-shadow_demo

http://learnwebgl.brown37.net/08_projections/projections_viewport.html

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_space_partitioning

Commit message:

add static clouds note to doc

README.md, after:

# Into the Woods -- BSP Frustum-Culling Demo


**CS174A Fall 2021 Project, UCLA**

*Team members:*

- Nurrachman Liu (rachliu@cs.ucla.edu)
- Adrian Hung
- Nicholas Browning

This is a demo for BSP-based frustum-culling. It contains a user-interactable BSP-tree; on each split (key press `n`), the tree divides the objects it contains into half spaces using a hyperplane. Each successive split recursively divides all leaves into 2 more cells. Turn on BSP-culling (key press `b`) to see the difference, from the exact player's POV! The player's exact POV is drawn globally as well, viewable from the global camera. (Cycle cameras using `t`).

![main](./docs/main.png)

To observe the difference between frustum-culling vs no-culling (regular), culling can be turned on/off (key press `b`).

The interactive player can be moved around (`IJKL` for translation, `QE` for left/right rotation, and `YH` for up/down tilt), independently of the default ('global') camera (`WASD`).

In BSP mode, BSP cells' centers are drawn in spheres colored by cell. To color objects by their BSP cell's color instead, hit `g`.

To cycle BSP-cull level, hit `c`. Default level (0) does not cull using any distance checks, while level (1) also does distance checks. Level 1 is better at very little expense (computations of distances to only log(n) objects), because it can additionally filter possibly many objects in leaves within the current FOV but that are too far away to be of any use.

To turn down LOD (level of detail), hit `u`.

- Note: the upper-right corner contains some static clouds **deliberately not** added to the BSP, in order to demonstrate the culling of clouds in the bsp as well (i.e., objecst at different heights are considered as well).


**Example:**
1. Split the scene several times (press `n` several times)
2. Turn on culling (`b`)
3. Rotate the player (`q`,`e`) to see the trees being culled based on what the player is seeing.
4. Cycle to player 1st-person perspective (`t`) to see exactly the FOV the player camera sees, and the trees.
5. Turn off culling (`b`) to see all trees rendered in player perspective.

- The overhead map (bottom left) shows the full map, the player FOV, and the culled objects.
- The off-camera viewport (bottom, right) shows the off-main camera's perspective.

![demo](./docs/demo.gif)


**All Keys:**

*BSP-control:*
- `b`:  Toggle BSP culling on/off.
- `n`:  Split the BSP by 1 level.
- `c`:  Cycle BSP cull-level. (0: fov withut max-distance check; 1: fov with max-distance check).
- `g`:  Color objects by the color of their BSP nodes.

*Misc. Settings:*
- `u`:  Toggle LOD.

*Camera-controls:*
- `t`:  Cycle between player vs global camera.

*Player-controls:*
- `i`: Move forward (w)
- `k`: Move backward (s)
- `j`: Move left (a)
- `l`: Move right (d)
- `q`: Rotate left
- `e`: Rotate right
- `y`: Tilt head up
- `h`: Tilt head down


### Code Location

All of the project code is located in `./project/`. The main graphics code is in `./project/bsp-demo.js`. The backend BSP data structure code is in `./project/bsp.js`.

The back-end `./project/bsp.js` can be run in node-js locally by typing `node bsp.js`.

The application is run by lauching the local python web server `./host` or `./host.command` and then going to localhost:8000 in your browser.


### References

https://github.com/Robert-Lu/tiny-graphics-shadow_demo

http://learnwebgl.brown37.net/08_projections/projections_viewport.html

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_space_partitioning
